[MUSIC]
Welcome to using Kubectl.
After watching this video you will be able
define Kubectl and the command structure.
List the three command types,
their features and advantages,
and list commonly used commands
with specific examples.
Kubectl is the Kubernetes
command line interface or CLI.
Kubectl stands for kube command tool line.
Kubectl is one of the key tools for
working with Kubernetes, and
it helps users deploy applications,
inspect and manage cluster resources,
view logs, and more.
It provides many features for users
who work with Kubernetes clusters and
manage running cluster workloads.
And three Kubectl command
types are imperative commands,
imperative object configuration and
declarative object configuration Kubectl
commands use the following structure.
Keeping each component
in order is critical.
Command means any operation
to be performed like create,
get, apply, or delete.
Type means resource type,
like pod deployment or
replica set, name means resource name,
if applicable, and
flags means special options or
modifiers that override default values.
Imperative commands allow you to create,
update, and delete live objects directly.
Operations should be specified to
the command as arguments or flags.
Imperative commands are easy to learn and
run.
For example, to create a pod with
a specific container, simply run
the command as shown, specifying only
a pod name and the container image.
But imperative commands don't
provide an audit trailer,
which is important for tracking changes.
They aren't flexible since options
are limited, they don't use templates, and
they cannot integrate with
change review processes, but
they are ideal for development and
test environments.
Imperative commands do
also have disadvantages.
Suppose a developer runs a command
to deploy an application.
Another developer wants to deploy
that same application, but
they cannot because there
is no configuration file.
The second developer must check
with the first developer for
the exact command to deploy and
then run it.
It would be best if both developers
used a template for the deployment,
since it overcomes the limitations
of working with imperative commands.
In imperative object configuration,
the qubectal command specifies
required operations, optional flags,
and at least one file name.
The specified configuration
file must contain
a full definition of the objects
in YAML or JSON format.
To create the objects defined in the file,
run the command kubectl create
finginx.yaml using the same configuration
templates in multiple environments
will produce identical results.
A configuration file may be stored
in a source control system like Git.
It can integrate with change processes,
and it provides audit trails and
templates for creating new objects.
But using it requires understanding of
the object schema and requires writing
a YAML or JSON file now imperative object
configuration also has limitations.
You need to specify all
necessary command operations.
For example, if a developer performs
an update operation that isn't merged into
the configuration file,
then another developer
cannot use the updated configuration
in future deployments.
The second developer instead uses
the original or previous configuration.
It is better to define the desired
state in a shared configuration
file than when you deploy.
Kubernetes automatically determines
the necessary operations.
This is known as declarative
object configuration.
Declarative object configuration
stores configuration data in files.
Operations are identified by Kubectl
instead of being specified by the user.
This works on directories or
individual files.
For example, the cubectal apply
command mentions a directory as shown,
then applies configuration data
to all files in that directory.
The user is not required to perform any
operations since they are performed by
the system automatically.
Configuration files define a desired
state, and Kubernetes actualizes
that state, and this approach is
the ideal method for production systems.
Here is an example of
declarative configuration.
A developer performs updates
to a running application.
Since configuration data is
stored in the shared template,
there is still one source of truth for
the configuration of this project.
Now, even if another developer
misses several of these updates,
all they need to do is apply
the current configuration template
to ensure the deployed
object is as expected.
Kubernetes automatically determines and
performs the necessary operations to match
the current state to the desired state.
Here are a few of the commonly used
Kubectl commands and descriptions.
The get command accesses a file
container or any other resource.
The delete command deletes a file or
container.
The autoscale command applies the auto
scaling process to the selected file or
container, and so on.
You can find all Kubectl
commands at Kubernetes IO.
Kubectl get commands allow you to listen
services in a current namespace, pods
in all namespaces, a particular deployment
and pods in the current namespace.
Kubectl apply commands create
resources using YAML or JSON files.
They use extensions like .yamal.yml,
or .json.
You can use apply commands to create
resources from multiple files or
from a URL.
Kubectl scale commands scale the number
of replicas you can use scale
commands to scale, a replica set named
foo to 3, or a resourceinfu .yaml to 3.
Let's create a deployment with
three replicas of the nginx image.
Create the deployment
using the apply command.
The output confirms
the deployment creation.
The get deployment command provides
the specific my-dep deployment details.
The output confirms the creation of three
replicas ready up to date and available.
In this video you learn that Kubectl is
the Kubernetes command line interface.
The Kubectl command structure is
Kubectl command type name flags.
Imperative commands are the easiest
to learn, have no audit trail,
and are not flexible.
Imperative object configuration uses
templates to ensure proper deployment,
replication.
And finally declarative object
configuration is automated,
requires no user input, and
is ideal for production systems.
[MUSIC]